



WEBTRANS                                                      E. Kinnear
Internet-Draft                                                Apple Inc.
Intended status: Standards Track                             V. Vasiliev
Expires: 7 January 2027                                           Google
                                                             6 July 2026


                  The WebTransport Protocol Framework
                    draft-ietf-webtrans-overview-13

Abstract

   The WebTransport Protocol Framework enables clients constrained by
   the Web security model to communicate with a remote server using a
   secure multiplexed transport.  It consists of a set of individual
   protocols that are safe to expose to untrusted applications, combined
   with an abstract model that allows them to be used interchangeably.

   This document defines the overall requirements on the protocols used
   in WebTransport, as well as the common features of the protocols,
   support for some of which is optional.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at https://ietf-wg-
   webtrans.github.io/draft-ietf-webtrans-overview/draft-ietf-webtrans-
   overview.html.  Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-webtrans-overview/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the WebTransport Working
   Group mailing list (mailto:webtransport@ietf.org), which is archived
   at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/webtransport/.  Subscribe
   at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/webtransport/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-webtrans/draft-ietf-webtrans-overview.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.



Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 7 January 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
     1.1.  Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
     1.2.  Conventions and Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   2.  Common Transport Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
   3.  Session Establishment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
     3.1.  Application Protocol Negotiation  . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
   4.  Transport Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
     4.1.  Session-Wide Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
     4.2.  Datagrams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
     4.3.  Streams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
   5.  Transport Properties  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
   6.  Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
   7.  IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
   8.  References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
     8.1.  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
     8.2.  Informative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15

1.  Introduction

   The WebTransport Protocol Framework enables clients constrained by
   the Web security model to communicate with a remote server using a
   secure multiplexed transport.  It consists of a set of individual
   protocols that are safe to expose to untrusted applications, combined
   with an abstract model that allows them to be used interchangeably.



Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                 [Page 2]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


   This document defines the overall requirements on the protocols used
   in WebTransport, as well as the common features of the protocols,
   support for some of which is optional.

1.1.  Background

   Historically, web applications that needed a bidirectional data
   stream between a client and a server could rely on WebSockets
   [RFC6455], a message-based protocol compatible with the Web security
   model.  However, since the abstraction it provides is a single
   ordered reliable stream of messages, it suffers from head-of-line
   blocking, meaning that all messages must be sent and received in
   order even if they could be processed independently of each other,
   and some messages might no longer be relevant.  This makes it a poor
   fit for latency-sensitive applications which rely on partial
   reliability and stream independence for performance.

   One existing option available to Web developers is WebRTC data
   channels [RFC8831], which provide a WebSocket-like API for a peer-to-
   peer SCTP channel protected by DTLS.  In theory, it is possible to
   use it for the use cases addressed by this specification.  However,
   in practice, it has not seen wide adoption outside of browser-to-
   browser settings due to its dependency on ICE (which fits poorly with
   the Web model) and userspace SCTP (which has a limited number of
   implementations available due to not being used in other contexts).

   An alternative design would be to open multiple WebSocket connections
   over HTTP/3 [RFC9220].  That would avoid head-of-line blocking and
   provide an ability to cancel a stream by closing the corresponding
   WebSocket session.  However, this approach has a number of drawbacks,
   which all stem primarily from the fact that semantically each
   WebSocket is a completely independent entity:

   *  Each new stream would require a WebSocket handshake to agree on
      application protocol used, meaning that it would take at least one
      RTT to establish each new stream before the client can write to
      it.

   *  Only clients can initiate streams.  Server-initiated streams and
      other alternative modes of communication (such as the QUIC
      DATAGRAM frame [RFC9221]) are not available.

   *  While the streams would normally be pooled by the user agent, this
      is not guaranteed, and the general process of mapping a WebSocket
      to a server is opaque to the client.  This introduces
      unpredictable performance properties into the system, and prevents
      optimizations which rely on the streams being on the same
      connection (for instance, it might be possible for the client to



Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                 [Page 3]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


      request different retransmission priorities for different streams,
      but that would be much more complex unless they are all on the
      same connection).

   WebTransport avoids all of those issues by letting applications
   create a single WebTransport session that can contain multiple
   streams multiplexed together in a single context (similar to SCTP,
   HTTP/2, QUIC and others), and can also be used to send unreliable
   datagrams (similar to UDP).

1.2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP
   14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   WebTransport is a framework that aims to abstract away the underlying
   transport protocol while still exposing a few key transport-layer
   aspects to application developers.  It is structured around the
   following concepts:

   WebTransport session:  A WebTransport session is a single
      communication context established between a client and a server.
      It might correspond to a specific transport-layer connection, or
      it might be a logical entity within an existing multiplexed
      transport-layer connection.  WebTransport sessions are logically
      independent from one another even if some sessions can share an
      underlying transport-layer connection.

   WebTransport protocol:  A WebTransport protocol is a specific
      protocol that can be used to establish a WebTransport session.

   Datagram:  A datagram is a unit of transmission that is limited in
      size (typically to the path MTU), does not have an expectation of
      being delivered reliably, is treated atomically by the transport,
      and is not flow controlled.

   Stream:  A stream is a sequence of bytes that is reliably delivered
      to the receiving application in the same order as it was
      transmitted by the sender.  Streams can be of arbitrary length,
      and therefore cannot always be buffered entirely in memory.
      WebTransport protocols and APIs are expected to provide partial
      stream data to the application before the stream has been entirely
      received.

   Message:  A message is a stream that is sufficiently small that it



Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                 [Page 4]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


      can be fully buffered before being passed to the application.
      WebTransport does not define messages as a primitive, since from
      the transport perspective they can be simulated by fully buffering
      a stream before passing it to the application.  However, this
      distinction is important to highlight since some of the similar
      protocols and APIs (notably WebSocket [RFC6455]) use messages as a
      core abstraction.

   Application:  A WebTransport application refers to executable code
      that is provided by a developer to perform some, often user-
      visible, function, such as sending and receiving data.  For
      example, a JavaScript application using WebTransport that is
      running inside a browser or code running within an executable that
      makes outgoing or accepts incoming WebTransport sessions.

   Server:  A WebTransport server is an application that accepts
      incoming WebTransport sessions.  In cases when WebTransport is
      served over a multiplexed protocol (such as HTTP/2 or HTTP/3),
      "WebTransport server" refers to a handler for a specific
      multiplexed endpoint (e.g. an application handling specific HTTP
      resource), rather than the application listening on a given TCP or
      UDP socket.

   Client:  A WebTransport client is an application that initiates the
      transport session and may be running in a constrained security
      context, for instance, a JavaScript application running inside a
      browser.

   Endpoint:  An endpoint refers to either a Server or a Client.

   User agent:  A WebTransport user agent is a software system that has
      an unrestricted access to the host network stack and can create
      transports on behalf of the client.

   Event:  An event is a notification, callback, or signal that a
      WebTransport endpoint can provide to a WebTransport application to
      notify it that some change of interest to the application has
      occurred.

2.  Common Transport Requirements

   Since clients are not necessarily trusted and have to be constrained
   by the Web security model, WebTransport imposes certain requirements
   on any specific protocol used.







Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                 [Page 5]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


   All WebTransport protocols MUST use TLS [RFC8446] or a semantically
   equivalent security protocol (for instance, DTLS [RFC9147]).  The
   protocols SHOULD use TLS version 1.3 or later, unless they aim for
   backwards compatibility with legacy systems.

   All WebTransport protocols MUST require the user agent to obtain and
   maintain explicit consent from the server to send data.  For
   connection-oriented protocols (such as TCP or QUIC), the connection
   establishment and keep-alive mechanisms suffice.  STUN Consent
   Freshness [RFC7675] is another example of a mechanism satisfying this
   requirement.

   All WebTransport protocols MUST limit the rate at which an endpoint
   sends data.  This SHOULD be accomplished via a feedback-based
   congestion control mechanism (such as [RFC5681] or [RFC9002]).  A
   WebTransport protocol MAY expose a way for the application to select
   among different congestion control profiles (for example, one
   optimized for throughput and one optimized for low latency), where
   the underlying transport supports it.

   All WebTransport protocols MUST support simultaneously establishing
   multiple sessions between the same client and server.

   All WebTransport protocols MUST prevent clients from establishing
   transport sessions to network endpoints that are not WebTransport
   servers.

   All WebTransport protocols MUST provide a way for the user agent to
   indicate the origin [RFC6454] of the client to the server.

   All WebTransport protocols MUST provide a way for a server endpoint
   location to be described using a URI [RFC3986].  This enables
   integration with various Web platform features that represent
   resources as URIs, such as Content Security Policy [CSP].

   All WebTransport protocols MUST provide a way for the session
   initiator to negotiate a subprotocol with the peer when establishing
   a WebTransport session.  The session initiator provides an optional
   list of subprotocols to the peer.  The peer selects one and responds
   indicating the selected subprotocol or rejects the session
   establishment request if none of the subprotocols are supported.
   Note that the semantics of individual subprotocol token values are
   determined by the WebTransport resource in question and are not
   registered in IANA's "ALPN Protocol IDs" registry.  Resources SHOULD
   use tokens that clearly identify their intended protocol; reusing
   identifiers associated with established ALPN protocols for unrelated
   purposes is NOT RECOMMENDED.




Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                 [Page 6]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


3.  Session Establishment

   WebTransport session establishment is an asynchronous process.  A
   session is considered _ready_ from the client's perspective when the
   server has confirmed that it is willing to accept the session with
   the provided origin and URI.  WebTransport protocols MAY allow
   clients to send data before the session is ready; however, they MUST
   NOT use mechanisms that are unsafe against replay attacks without an
   explicit indication from the client.

   Where a WebTransport protocol is layered on a protocol whose session
   establishment carries additional metadata (for example, HTTP response
   header fields), the WebTransport protocol MAY expose that metadata to
   the application once the session is ready.

3.1.  Application Protocol Negotiation

   WebTransport sessions offer a protocol negotiation mechanism, similar
   to TLS Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension (ALPN)
   [RFC7301].

   When establishing a session, a WebTransport client can offer the
   server a list of protocols that it would like to use on that session,
   in preference order.  When the server receives such a list, it
   selects a single choice from that list and communicates that choice
   to the client.  A server that does not wish to use any of the
   protocols offered by the client can reject the WebTransport session
   establishment attempt.

4.  Transport Features

   In order to make the transport protocols interchangeable, all
   transport protocols MUST provide datagrams, unidirectional streams,
   and bidirectional streams.

4.1.  Session-Wide Features

   Any WebTransport protocol SHALL provide the following operations on
   the session:

   establish a session  Create a new WebTransport session given a URI
      [RFC3986] of the requester.  An origin [RFC6454] MUST be given if
      the WebTransport session is coming from a browser client;
      otherwise, it is OPTIONAL.

   terminate a session  Terminate the session while communicating to the





Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                 [Page 7]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


      peer an unsigned 32-bit error code and a UTF-8 encoded error
      reason string of at most 1024 bytes.  As soon as the session is
      terminated, no further application data will be exchanged on it.
      The error code and string are optional; the default values are 0
      and "".  The delivery of the error code and string MAY be best-
      effort.

   drain a session  Indicate to the peer that it expects the session to
      be gracefully terminated as soon as possible.  Either endpoint MAY
      continue using the session and MAY open new streams.  This signal
      is intended to allow intermediaries and endpoints to request a
      session be drained of traffic without enforcement.

   export keying material  Derive a TLS keying material exporter
      (Section 7.5 of [RFC8446]) to provide keying material specific to
      the WebTransport session.

   Any WebTransport protocol SHALL provide the following events:

   session terminated event  Indicates that the WebTransport session has
      been terminated, either by the peer or by the local networking
      stack, and no user data can be exchanged on it any further.  If
      the session has been terminated as a result of the peer performing
      the "terminate a session" operation above, a corresponding error
      code and an error string can be provided.

   session draining event  Indicates that the WebTransport session has
      been asked to drain as soon as possible.  Continued use of the
      session, including opening new streams is discouraged, but
      allowed.

4.2.  Datagrams

   The general goal for WebTransport datagrams is to be similar in
   behavior to UDP while being subject to common requirements expressed
   in Section 2.

   A WebTransport sender is not expected to retransmit datagrams, though
   it may end up doing so if it is using TCP or some other underlying
   protocol that only provides reliable delivery.  WebTransport
   datagrams are not expected to be flow controlled, meaning that the
   receiver might drop datagrams if the application is not consuming
   them fast enough.

   The application MUST be provided with the maximum datagram size that
   it can send.  The size SHOULD be derived from the result of
   performing path MTU discovery, when the underlying transport supports
   it.



Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                 [Page 8]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


   WebTransport datagrams have bounded send and receive buffers.  Either
   endpoint can drop a datagram when its buffer is full: the sender can
   drop an outgoing datagram that does not fit in its send buffer, and
   the receiver can drop an incoming datagram that does not fit in its
   receive buffer.

   Additionally, because datagrams are not reliably delivered,
   applications sending time-sensitive data can use age-based limits to
   request that stale data is not sent.  A sender MAY impose an age-
   based limit that caps how long an outgoing datagram remains queued
   before it is either sent or discarded.  A receiver MAY apply a
   similar age-based limit to discard incoming datagrams that have
   waited in the receive queue for longer than the application is
   willing to accept.

   Any WebTransport protocol SHALL provide the following operations on
   the session:

   send a datagram  Enqueues a datagram to be sent to the peer.  This
      can potentially result in the datagram being dropped if the queue
      is full.

   receive a datagram  Dequeues an incoming datagram, if one is
      available.

   get maximum datagram size  Returns the largest size of the datagram
      that a WebTransport session is expected to be able to send.

   The maximum size of an incoming datagram is determined by the
   WebTransport protocol binding and the underlying transport.
   WebTransport protocols MAY expose a way for the application to
   influence the maximum receive datagram size or buffer capacity.

4.3.  Streams

   A unidirectional stream is a one-way reliable in-order stream of
   bytes where the initiator is the only endpoint that can send data.  A
   bidirectional stream allows both endpoints to send data and can be
   conceptually represented as a pair of unidirectional streams.

   The streams are in general expected to follow the semantics and the
   state machine of QUIC streams ([RFC9000], Sections 2 and 3).

   A WebTransport stream sender can reset its send side, indicating that
   no further data will be transmitted on the stream.  The sender can
   indicate an offset in the stream (possibly zero) after which data
   that was already sent will not be retransmitted.




Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                 [Page 9]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


   A WebTransport stream receiver can abort its receive side, indicating
   that it is not interested in receiving further data and signaling the
   sender to stop sending.  These operations are independent: the two
   directions of a bidirectional stream can be terminated separately.

   Errors signaled through resetting or aborting a stream are scoped to
   that stream and do not terminate the WebTransport session.  Session-
   level errors, signaled through the "terminate a session" operation,
   apply to the entire session.

   WebTransport protocols are designed so that streams are sufficiently
   lightweight to be used as messages.

   Data sent on a stream is flow controlled by the transport protocol.
   In addition to flow controlling stream data, the creation of new
   streams is flow controlled as well: an endpoint may only open a
   limited number of streams until the peer explicitly allows creating
   more streams.  From the receiver's perspective, this is presented as
   a size-bounded queue of incoming streams.  A WebTransport protocol
   MUST expose enough information about the current stream-creation flow
   control state that a caller can determine whether stream creation
   would succeed and know when additional stream credit becomes
   available.

   Applications MAY provide the transport with hints about how sending
   on different streams and datagrams should be scheduled relative to
   each other.  A WebTransport protocol MAY honor these hints using the
   prioritization facilities of the underlying transport, where such
   facilities are available.

   Any WebTransport protocol SHALL provide the following operations on
   the session:

   create a unidirectional stream  Creates an outgoing unidirectional
      stream.

   create a bidirectional stream  Creates an outgoing bidirectional
      stream.

   receive a unidirectional stream  Returns the next stream from the
      queue of incoming unidirectional streams, if one is available.

   receive a bidirectional stream  Returns the next stream from the
      queue of incoming bidirectional streams, if one is available.

   Any WebTransport protocol SHALL provide the following operations on
   an individual stream:




Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                [Page 10]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


   send bytes  Add bytes into the stream send buffer.  The sender can
      also indicate a FIN together with the bytes, signaling that no new
      data will be sent on the stream.  Not applicable for incoming
      unidirectional streams.

   close send side  Indicate a FIN on the stream without writing
      additional bytes, signaling that no new data will be sent.
      Equivalent to calling send bytes with an empty payload and a FIN.
      Not applicable for incoming unidirectional streams.

   receive bytes  Reads bytes from the stream receive buffer.  FIN can
      be received together with the stream data.  Not applicable for
      outgoing unidirectional streams.

   abort send side  Sends a signal to the peer that the write side of
      the stream has been aborted, including an offset in the stream
      that is reliably delivered.  Discards the send buffer after that
      offset; if possible, no currently outstanding data after the
      provided send offset is transmitted or retransmitted.  If omitted,
      the offset is 0.  An unsigned 32-bit error code can be supplied as
      a part of the signal to the peer; if omitted, the error code is 0.

   abort receive side  Sends a signal to the peer that the read side of
      the stream has been aborted.  Discards the receive buffer; the
      peer SHOULD abort the corresponding send side in response (similar
      to Section 3.5 of [RFC9000]).  An unsigned 32-bit error code can
      be supplied as a part of the signal to the peer.

   Any WebTransport protocol SHALL provide the following events for an
   individual stream:

   send side aborted  Indicates that the peer has aborted the
      corresponding receive side of the stream.  An unsigned 32-bit
      error code from the peer might be available.

   receive side aborted  Indicates that the peer has aborted the
      corresponding send side of the stream.  An unsigned 32-bit error
      code from the peer might be available.

   all data committed  Indicates that all of the outgoing data on the
      stream, including the end stream indication, is in the state where
      aborting the send side would have no further effect on any data
      being delivered.

      For protocols, like HTTP/2, stream data might be passed to another






Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                [Page 11]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


      component (like a kernel) for transmission.  Once data is passed
      to that component it might not be possible to abort the sending of
      stream data without also aborting the entire connection.  For
      these protocols, data is considered committed once it passes to
      the other component.

      A protocol, like HTTP/3, that uses a more integrated stack might
      be able to prevent the transmission or retransmission of data that
      has not yet been acknowledged by the peer.  For these protocols,
      sending on a stream might be aborted at any time until all data
      has been received and acknowledged by the peer, corresponding to
      the "Data Recvd" state in QUIC; see Section 3.1 of [QUIC].

5.  Transport Properties

   WebTransport defines common semantics for multiple protocols to allow
   them to be used interchangeably.  Nevertheless, those protocols still
   have substantially different performance properties that an
   application might want to query.

   The most notable property is support for unreliable data delivery.
   The protocol is defined to support unreliable delivery if:

   *  Resetting a stream results in the lost stream data no longer being
      retransmitted, and

   *  Datagrams are never retransmitted.

   Applications that depend on unreliable delivery, such as applications
   sending time-sensitive datagrams, MAY require it when establishing a
   session, and a WebTransport protocol MAY expose a way for such
   applications to refuse a protocol binding that cannot provide
   unreliable delivery.

   Another important property is pooling support.  Pooling means that
   multiple transport sessions may end up sharing the same transport
   layer connection, and thus share a congestion controller and other
   contexts.

6.  Security Considerations

   Providing untrusted clients with a relatively low-level access to the
   network comes with risks.  This document mitigates those risks by
   imposing a set of common requirements described in Section 2.







Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                [Page 12]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


   WebTransport mandates the use of TLS for all protocols implementing
   it.  This provides confidentiality and integrity for the transport,
   protecting it from both potential attackers and ossification by
   intermediaries in the network.

   One potential concern is that even when a transport cannot be
   created, the connection error would reveal enough information to
   allow an attacker to scan the network addresses that would normally
   be inaccessible.  Because of that, the user agent that runs untrusted
   clients MUST NOT provide any detailed error information until the
   server has confirmed that it is a WebTransport endpoint.  For
   example, a client cannot distinguish between a network address that
   is unreachable and one that is reachable but is not a WebTransport
   server.

   Since WebTransport requires TLS, individual transport protocols MAY
   expose TLS-based authentication capabilities such as client
   certificates and custom validation of server certificates, including
   validation using a client-specified set of server certificate hashes.

7.  IANA Considerations

   There are no requests to IANA in this document.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

   [QUIC]     Iyengar, J., Ed. and M. Thomson, Ed., "QUIC: A UDP-Based
              Multiplexed and Secure Transport", RFC 9000,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9000, May 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9000>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC3986]  Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter, "Uniform
              Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax", STD 66,
              RFC 3986, DOI 10.17487/RFC3986, January 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986>.

   [RFC6454]  Barth, A., "The Web Origin Concept", RFC 6454,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6454, December 2011,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6454>.





Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                [Page 13]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8446]  Rescorla, E., "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol
              Version 1.3", RFC 8446, DOI 10.17487/RFC8446, August 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8446>.

8.2.  Informative References

   [CSP]      W3C, "Content Security Policy Level 3", July 2026,
              <https://www.w3.org/TR/CSP/>.

   [RFC5681]  Allman, M., Paxson, V., and E. Blanton, "TCP Congestion
              Control", RFC 5681, DOI 10.17487/RFC5681, September 2009,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5681>.

   [RFC6455]  Fette, I. and A. Melnikov, "The WebSocket Protocol",
              RFC 6455, DOI 10.17487/RFC6455, December 2011,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6455>.

   [RFC7301]  Friedl, S., Popov, A., Langley, A., and E. Stephan,
              "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Application-Layer Protocol
              Negotiation Extension", RFC 7301, DOI 10.17487/RFC7301,
              July 2014, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7301>.

   [RFC7675]  Perumal, M., Wing, D., Ravindranath, R., Reddy, T., and M.
              Thomson, "Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) Usage
              for Consent Freshness", RFC 7675, DOI 10.17487/RFC7675,
              October 2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7675>.

   [RFC8831]  Jesup, R., Loreto, S., and M. Tüxen, "WebRTC Data
              Channels", RFC 8831, DOI 10.17487/RFC8831, January 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8831>.

   [RFC9000]  Iyengar, J., Ed. and M. Thomson, Ed., "QUIC: A UDP-Based
              Multiplexed and Secure Transport", RFC 9000,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9000, May 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9000>.

   [RFC9002]  Iyengar, J., Ed. and I. Swett, Ed., "QUIC Loss Detection
              and Congestion Control", RFC 9002, DOI 10.17487/RFC9002,
              May 2021, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9002>.

   [RFC9147]  Rescorla, E., Tschofenig, H., and N. Modadugu, "The
              Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Protocol Version
              1.3", RFC 9147, DOI 10.17487/RFC9147, April 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9147>.



Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                [Page 14]

Internet-Draft                WebTransport                     July 2026


   [RFC9220]  Hamilton, R., "Bootstrapping WebSockets with HTTP/3",
              RFC 9220, DOI 10.17487/RFC9220, June 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9220>.

   [RFC9221]  Pauly, T., Kinnear, E., and D. Schinazi, "An Unreliable
              Datagram Extension to QUIC", RFC 9221,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9221, March 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9221>.

Authors' Addresses

   Eric Kinnear
   Apple Inc.
   Email: ekinnear@apple.com


   Victor Vasiliev
   Google
   Email: vasilvv@google.com
































Kinnear & Vasiliev       Expires 7 January 2027                [Page 15]
